---
layout: post
title: "Rustcon Asia 2019"
date: 2019-04-24 17:30
comments: true
categories: 
---
I’ve been occasionally following the development of rust ever since its 0.4 back
in 2015. It didn’t really need huge amount of efforts to catch the eyes for
someone like me who has been intrigued by the gateway drug in the programming
language design, Haskell, to invest some time to take a closer look at it when
Mozilla said they are developing a new programming language to replace C++. And
the language would be used for the next generation of rendering engine, Servo.
The ambitious pitch made you raise your eyebrows, after all so many predecessors
has failed. I did spend some time to play with the language back in 2015 and did
a [presentation](http://mno2.github.io/slides/derived/intro-to-rust.html)
internally. However, I stopped to devote major share of my time to get involved
due to the immaturity and lack of echo chamber to push myself to get more
involvement.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2400/1*0nRP9B9mDdn3qLU2d1qojg.jpeg)

Things started to change after the release of rust 1.0, especially with the
proven cases like TiDB by PingCAP, and the release of Quantum. Even Fuchia and
Dropbox has rust running as the real world applications. It’s hard not to notice
the momentum, though not on par with the growth of golang, more and more
companies open to jump on the board of rust when they face the use cases where
traditionally C++ would be a no brainer.

Earlier this year I read the information of Rustcon Asia 2019 from Rust daily
news’ zhihu publication. It’s a good chance to me to attend since it is a long
weekend in Singapore. The distance is not close between Singapore and Beijing
(6hr of flight time), but it is definitely much closer for me to attend Rustcon
in U.S.A. and I don’t need to adjust for the jet lag before and after the
conference, which seems quite ideal to me. I asked if anyone would be interested
to attend as well in the company’s internal rust interest group slack channel,
and it turned out that three of us Grab’s SRE, myself, Alex and Lincoln decided
to go to Beijing for the Rustcon Asia.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2400/1*USyCnvpKJqEkSMxTFzYzrg.jpeg)

The conference’s talk session is hosted at Hyatt Regency in Wanjing. The
conference is well prepared, the reception is quite smooth and it’s sweet to
have the live translator for the whole conference session for people that is not
Mandarin native speaker. I didn’t attend any international tech conference in
China before so I don’t have a baseline to compare with. As a first-timer I
found it is good step to make the conference in China truly international. For
sure there are domain terminologies that were not translated well and it could
be left for improvement.

There are many good talks, from beginner level to the hard-core level. Here are
the list of the talks that I am more impressed with, and along with my notes.

### Futures in TiKV

I didn’t follow closely to the Futures in rust, this talk is quite new to me.
However, I can understand in order to make distributed system development in
Rust easy and possible. Futures would be a strong building block and everyone
would like to have it. It is the same for most of the mainstream multi-paradigm
languages from what I can tell. PingCAP as the pioneer and the biggest user of
Rust, this talk given by their engineer seems to be quite convincing on the use
cases and its interface design. At this moment, the Futures seem to still at the
nursery phase (you could tell that from the repo name), but the core-team seems
to would like to have it stablized and ship it in the upcoming future.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2400/1*iXMj0w8VILkDLHrV-wMmYg.jpeg)

### Stackful coroutine based rust async story

This is another hard-core talk. It reminds me of the stackful coroutine tutorial
in C++ I read on internet before. The speaker didn’t mention about what the
concrete problem he is trying to resolve and why his rust implementation fits
the problem. It sounds to me it is more like I want to do it because I can do
it. It’s quite ok for the proof of concept, just that by missing the link to the
real problem you face in the production system, I would lose track of the
motivation behind as an audience. I still learned something from the Q&A session
where a few of questions about the tradeoff and comparison between golang’s
goroutine implementation and speaker’s implementation. I need to dig into the
source code to understand a little bit more about the concrete implementation to
digest.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2400/1*m245lNr5G_h00UuHzbypog.jpeg)

### Re:Zero — writing a custom derive

It’s a quite hard-core session on how to write custom derive for rust compiler.
The speaker first introduced what are the common circumstances where you would
like to have your own custom derive. In his case, it is the internals of Servo
CSS rendering engine. In Servo it had a lot of data type conversion operator you
would like to support, you would have to write a lot of ToXXX and FromXXX
methods in your code. If you hand-writing all of them, it is not only requires
lots of laboring but it is also error-prone, and you could not simply avoid that
due to the intrinsic complexity in the design of CSS engine. This is the typical
case where you would like to have custom derive. By putting at
[derive(ConvertA)] then compiler would do all of the heavy lifting for you.
However, writing the code for custom derive is not an easy task and requires
special care. The input and output of your code are both code, it is not the raw
input where you could verify against and easy to tell it is correct. You are
doing a code transformation and rewriting, logical reasoning is probably the
best way to verify it is correct or not. The examples put in the slides are
written from scratch so that they are easier to be digested for the beginners,
it is sweat to have a clean example for the beginners to put their hands on.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2400/1*roM0whhfXzax2mt-EWlfmg.jpeg)

### Distributed Actor System in Rust

This is one of the talks that I was impressed with, mainly because the problem
domain they are working on is quite similar to some of the projects that Grab is
also planning to do. And the approaches are similar in that both are aiming a
Distributed Actor System, but for sure what has been done at Alibaba is way
ahead. Alibaba is building a tick-based actor system, in the Q&A session it is
explained that it has the flexibility to support their use cases and therefore
they built their own in-house but not using the open-sourced like Akka. The talk
addressed the issues they faced while doing the message layout in Rust. The
major issue is the message typeID set has to be consistent across machines and
across compilation, and a pending pull-request already submitted to the main
branch to resolve the issue. I recalled that the project of Cloud Haskell faced
the same problem where the stable typeID need to be guaranteed across the
machines and compilation therefore this problem sounds quite familiar.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2400/1*NxREB0PSS71A8yEHfPTm_w.jpeg)

### Be Fearless Using Rust in Production

This talk is about a real-time banner ads image stitching. It would generate the
final banner ads from the provided image elements and stitch them together. The
very first version of the service was in NodeJS, however, its latency was 200ms
and the QPS was only a few thousands. This metrics was unacceptable to the team
and they need a low level language to optimize the computation-intensive part.
They tried out to rewrite the computation-heavy part in Rust as a NodeJS module
and successfully reduced the latency to 20ms, but the QPS didn’t improve
significantly. Due to the major blocker of high latency was removed so this
version is actually deployed. In Alibaba there isn’t paved road for rust, to
workaround this organizational issue, the team wrap the rust as a NodeJS
application and did the deployment. This is the major problem that most of the
developers would face if they would like to pitch the rust application
internally to the company I suppose. There would definitely push-back from the
operation team and management. With the most recent version the service was
completely rewritten in rust, the QPS and the latency are greatly improved. The
QPS was 20k-ish if I remembered correctly. I asked a question about the tooling
to improve rust application’s observability, if there is anything comparable to
golang’s pprof. It seems that there is still lack of the same thing but only
something like failure to log the necessary stuff. The speaker mentioned that
they debugged the deadlock of concurrent map offline.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2400/1*Fq-fcp6ZFdLEGwzVnuFlnA.jpeg)

### Rust at Bilibili

Bilibili is the China’s niconico, the niche streaming website for Japanese
anime. With the fast growth they faced the CI/CD performance issue and they need
a distributed cache server for the building workflow. Initially the speaker said
he was trying to implement it in golang, but it turned out the performance is
not so well. Therefore he used his spare time to rewrite the cache proxy in Rust
as a proof of concept. The performance is much better and they code-named the
project as Aster, and the whole talk is basically sharing the pitfall they faced
during the project development. It included the flame graph generated by prof
was not fine-grained enough, missing key information so that the developers
could identify the hot path to continue to optimize. With the help of the
community, they resolved the flame graph granularity issue and move the thing
forward. The other difficulty they faced was something about parser, and it was
eventually resolved by using FSM. I didn’t pay my full attention at that part of
the talk therefore I couldn’t recall most of the detail.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2400/1*eVgx9eu3-jPybkMJgxUWWg.jpeg)

### Search Engine in production with Rust

The speaker shared about the experience of rewriting Lucence (code name Rucene)
in zhihu, roughly done in a year. With the growth of zhihu they need to build
their own search functionality. Due to fast iterations in the past they hacked
some version of Elasticsearch. However, the change could not be merged to the
upstream therefore the in-house version stucked. They could not upgrade to the
latest one and they unfortunately was using a version that was unstable and
often had avalanche failure for the cluster. The search is a core functionality
and therefore the team considered it is a good investment to build their
in-house solution. They definitely would like to have good performance and did
consider C++. However, they worried about the memory safety problem as well.
They did evaluate the rust but was also worried about the lacking of the
experience for the team would create uncertainty. Luckily, the PingCAP was
already the pioneer by adopting rust in the Chinese community, they consulted
the CEO of PingCAP and felt confident enough to go by rust, and therefore the
project. At the start of the project, for sure it requires about a month for the
developers to get comfortable with rust, but if it is amortized to a long
project cycle, the learning investment doesn’t seem to be much, at least to
zhihu team. They decided to rewrite the Lucene in rust due to practical reason.
They did want to have their own index library, but due to the project timeline,
they need to put the requirements like it is easy to verify the result is
correct, and the ranking/scoring should be comparable to what Elasticsearch has
provided. It would be a challenging task if you don’t have an implementation
reference. By being compatible with Lucene, that would make it possible to cross
validate with the de-factor Lucene implementation. The speaker didn’t share too
much detail on what other difficulties they faced by fighting with the compilers
etc, but it is still interesting to see that zhihu decided to have their one of
their core infra in Rust.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2400/1*m7JFXrybcqmnqAYBvkwNKQ.jpeg)

### Workshops

In order to get some time to do sightseeing in Beijing, I skipped most of the
workshop but one, Nick’s workshop on intermediate rust. In the workshop you
would know how to get yourself familiar with the ownership concept and how to
write idiomatic rust. I already knew most of the stuff but it is still good to
know how the slide was organized. It is very systematic and very easy to digest.
I think I would use the slide as the base when I would like to pitch the rust to
others.

### Summary

Overall it is a good experience to attend the conference, nice speakers and good
audience. The lunch on the first day is very nice and it was hosted at Hyatt.
Also, you get the perks if you raise your hand and ask question, to get a free
rust book. I am looking forward to see Rust getting momentum so it is much
easier to get a full-time job. Right now I can feel the traction but far from
the heat like golang. I am carefully optimistic.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2400/1*h2NywNAHbALbZ8vpRpKdBw.jpeg)
